OSDOCS-19786: accept flag for recommend command (#112007)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oc-adm-upgrade-recommend-accept.adoc

Reviewer: Maybe add this into this page as well?

> The `oc adm upgrade recommend` command is read-only and does not affect the state of the cluster. To request an update, use the `oc adm upgrade` command.

The above comes from the (a bit twisted) output of `oc adm upgrade recommend -h`.

Author: So this section will be nested under a [more general section](https://112007--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/updating/preparing_for_updates/updating-cluster-prepare.html#oc-adm-upgrade-recommend_updating-cluster-prepare) for using the `oc adm upgrade recommend` command normally.

I think this might be good info to add, but it might be more appropriate to add in the general section. I can add it there and see how that looks

Reviewer: The note block looks nice.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oc-adm-upgrade-recommend-accept_{context}"]
= Accepting risks with the oc adm upgrade recommend command

[role="_abstract"]
You can use a command flag to explicitly accept update risks that are shown in the output of the `oc adm upgrade recommend` command.

> // Not sure what else to add to the intro, since the "why" behind this seems to be that in 5.0, it will be necessary for upgrades to versions with risks. Right now, this feature kind of seems to just exist.

Reviewer 2: Keep or remove?

Author: Hmm I can see this being a helpful reminder for when I am working on 5.0 docs to update the abstract, but it also is not gonna help me much unless I remember this file should be opened and looked at in the first place.

I guess comments are free and will get removed in migration, so I think I'll leave as-is 🤷‍♂️

:FeatureName: The `--accept` flag for the `oc adm upgrade recommend` command

> include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

Author: So is using the `--accept` flag as described in this procedure already GA? If so, I can remove this tech preview disclaimer

Reviewer: I think you are correct.

Here is my reasoning:

https://github.com/openshift/oc/pull/2088/changes#diff-834d2338a9e44c75b51fcac8a34549a621eda1a795eefb577fb66d33297a45f4L65
plus its cherry-pick
indicate it is GA since 4.20.

.Procedure

. Check for update risks by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm upgrade recommend
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
The following conditions found no cause for concern in updating this cluster to later releases: recommended/CriticalAlerts (AsExpected), recommended/NodeAlerts (AsExpected), recommended/PodDisruptionBudgetAlerts (AsExpected), recommended/PodImagePullAlerts (AsExpected)

The following conditions found cause for concern in updating this cluster to later releases: recommended/UpdatePrecheckAlerts/TestAlert/0

recommended/UpdatePrecheckAlerts/TestAlert/0=False:

  Reason: Alert:firing

>   Message: warning alert TestAlert firing, suggesting issues worth investigating before updating the cluster. Test alert for updates. The alert description is: Test alert for updates <alert does not have a runbook_url annotation>

Author: Do we want to use a generic test alert in this example output? Or can we replace it with a realistic alert that a user would find on their cluster, and one that would be reasonable for them to accept?

Upstream update service is unset, so the cluster will use an appropriate default.
Channel: stable-4.21 (available channels: candidate-4.20, candidate-4.21, candidate-4.22, eus-4.20, fast-4.20, fast-4.21, stable-4.20, stable-4.21)

Updates to 4.21:
  VERSION     ISSUES
  4.21.14     no known issues relevant to this cluster
  4.21.13     no known issues relevant to this cluster
And 2 older 4.21 updates you can see with '--show-outdated-releases' or '--version VERSION'.

Updates to 4.20:
  VERSION     ISSUES

>   4.20.20     no known issues relevant to this cluster

Author: I modified the example output I was given to add more realistic info (upstream update service being set to default, using stable channel, mentioning versions that aren't rc builds, etc). Let me know if that needs to be changed. 

Perhaps this example is no longer realistic because the top part mentions update precheck alerts, and that's not available in 4.20.

Reviewer: Add some description about the example like this?

> where TestAlert is the name of the alert that is firing on the cluster and is considered a risk to a cluster update. TestAlert is chosen to demonstrate the command. The set of alerts of interest is determined by OpenShift and may be changed over time.

https://github.com/openshift/oc/pull/2210 I do not find the commit in 4.20.

```console
$ git branch -a --contains 2899d2b05722d3785f13192dd52676d644e8925e | grep origin
  remotes/origin/main
  remotes/origin/release-4.22
  remotes/origin/release-4.23
  remotes/origin/release-5.0
  remotes/origin/release-5.1
  remotes/origin/revert-2236-revert-2219-17742241213N
```

maybe it does not matter that much (if we have the above description)?

Author: I can add something like that disclaimer. 

Another thing is, once 4.22 releases and we have some z streams available, perhaps we can use real output from a 4.22.0 cluster (so the output shows updates to 4.22.1, 4.22.2, etc.) and the output will look better

> The set of alerts that can be identified as an update risk might be changed over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerts that can be identified as update risks might be changed over time.
```

nit:

The concept we use in OTA discussion is an alert is a risk.
A bunch of alerts becomes risks. Like a 1to1 mapping.

But English is not my mother language. Please use the wording you see fit.

Author: I slightly refined the wording based on your advice and also by looking at it with fresh eyes after a nice long weekend 😅

. Accept update risks by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm upgrade recommend --accept <risk_name>
----
+
Replace `<risk_name>` with the name of the risk you want to accept.

> You can accept multiple risks at once by separating each risk by a comma, for example `[risk1,risk2,risk3]`.

Reviewer: Do we need the square brackets?

```suggestion
You can accept multiple risks at once by separating each risk by a comma, for example `risk1,risk2,risk3`.
```

Author: Oh I added the square brackets based on what I saw in the output of `oc adm upgrade recommend -h`, but if the brackets aren't needed I can remove them here

Reviewer: It uses the same lib as https://github.com/openshift/oc/blob/cb28d277856bfc6452274b6367b075f8eb1dde54/pkg/cli/admin/upgrade/recommend/recommend.go#L66

Square brackets do not work.

```console
$ cat ./cmd/abc/main.go                           
package main

import (
        "fmt"

        "github.com/spf13/pflag"
)

func main() {
        var roles []string
        pflag.StringSliceVar(&roles, "role", []string{"guest"}, "User roles to assign")
        pflag.Parse()
        for i, role := range roles {
                fmt.Printf("%d:===%s===\n", i, role)
        }
}
➜  oc git:(pr2213) ✗ go run ./cmd/abc --role='admin,manager,editor'
0:===admin===
1:===manager===
2:===editor===
➜  oc git:(pr2213) ✗ go run ./cmd/abc --role='[admin,manager,editor]'
0:===[admin===
1:===manager===
2:===editor]===
```

+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm upgrade recommend --accept TestAlert
----

> +

Reviewer: Maybe add an explanation like this?

> where the risk name comes from the alert name `TestAlert` in the above example.

Author: In my opinion I think a user following along this procedure would probably know that we're using the same example alert as in the previous step, but let me know if you disagree
